MRS comments (#339)
alchemistry/alchemlyb: joss_paper/paper.md

# Summary

*Alchemlyb* is a dedicated open-source software package tailored for the analysis of alchemical free energy calculations, an integral part of computational chemistry and biology, most notably in the field of drug discovery. The software spans a wide range of functions, starting with the extraction of raw data from molecular dynamics (MD) engines, moving on to data preprocessing tasks such as decorrelation of time series, using various estimators to derive free energy estimates from simulation samples, and finally providing quality analysis tools for data convergence checking.

A distinctive attribute of *alchemlyb* is its streamlined, end-to-end analysis process reminiscent of the now-discontinued [alchemical-analysis.py](https://github.com/MobleyLab/alchemical-analysis) workflow. This user-friendly workflow facilitates navigation through the entire analysis pipeline, from the initial data input stage to the final result derivation, enabling researchers from diverse scientific backgrounds, and not solely computational chemistry specialists, to utilize alchemlyb effectively.

# Statement of need

> In the pharmaceutical sector, computational chemistry techniques are integral for evaluating potential drug compounds based on their protein binding affinity [@deng2009computations]. Notably, absolute binding free energy calculations between proteins and ligands or relative binding affinity of ligands to the same protein are routinely employed for this purpose [@merz2010drug]. The resultant estimates of these free energies are essential for understanding binding affinity throughout various stages of drug discovery, such as hit identification and lead optimization [@merz2010drug]. Other free energies extracted from simulations are useful in solution thermodyamics problems in chemical engineering, evironmental science, and material science. for The *alchemlyb* software processes the raw data from MD simulations of data using key estimators from statistical mechanics, drastically simplifying the process of extracting crucial thermodynamic insights from molecular simulations [^1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the pharmaceutical sector, computational chemistry techniques are integral for evaluating potential drug compounds based on their protein binding affinity [@deng2009computations]. Notably, absolute binding free energy calculations between proteins and ligands or relative binding affinity of ligands to the same protein are routinely employed for this purpose [@merz2010drug]. The resultant estimates of these free energies are essential for understanding binding affinity throughout various stages of drug discovery, such as hit identification and lead optimization [@merz2010drug]. Other free energies extracted from simulations are useful in solution thermodynamics, chemical engineering, environmental science, and material science. The *alchemlyb* software processes the raw data from MD simulations using key estimators from statistical mechanics, drastically simplifying the process of extracting crucial thermodynamic insights from molecular simulations [^1].
```
